#summary Case Study 1: Design of a yardage book with Google Earth

= Introduction =

The purpose of this project is to design a professional looking yardage book and scorecard for a golf course.

= Procedure =

== Collect Information ==

The first step is to collect information about the golf course: Name, address, and contact information such as telephone number.

== Design in Google Earth ==

Spot the golf course in Google Earth. Start drawing polygons around elements of the golf course.

The secret of easy yardage book design resides in conventions used to speed up and automate conversions between data format. We recommend using the following folder structure for Google Earth:

{{{
  |
  +- Country Club Name
      |
      +- Golf Course Name
            |
            +- Hole 1
                  |
                  +O Green
                  +O Tee Black
                  +O Fairway
                  +O Green-side bunker
                  +O Tree
                     ...
            +- Hole 2
                  |
                  +- (...) Placemarks and polygons for second hole
                     ...
      +- Golf Course No 2 Name
            |
            +- Hole 1
               ...
  |
  +- Another Country Club Name
      |
      ...
}}}

This design accomodates for several country clubs, hosting one or more golf courses.

The name of polygons and placement is also important. To be automagically recognized, the polygon or placemark name should contain the following string:

|| *Name contains* || *Recognized as *||
|| tee || tee ||
|| fairway || fairway ||
|| green || green ||
|| fringe || fringe ||
|| tree || tree ||
|| trees || trees ||
|| bush || bush ||
|| semi || semi-rough ||
|| rough || rough ||
|| heavy || heavy-rough ||
|| trap || trap ||
|| bunker || trap ||
|| greenside || greenside-trap ||
|| fairway-trap || fairway-trap ||
|| front || front-water ||
|| water || water ||
|| lateral || lateral-water ||
|| path || path ||
|| building || building ||
|| construction || building ||
|| obstruction || obstruction ||
|| out-of-bound || out-of-bound ||
|| oob || out-of-bound ||
|| contour || hole-contour ||
|| aim || aim ||
|| dogleg || aim ||

In Google Earth, save the country club folder to a KML file.

== Transformation to GolfML ==

Using the sample kml2golfml.xsl style sheet, simply transform the KML file.

The result of the transformation will be a simple GolfML document with some missing information.

Using a text or an XML editor, you can add the missing information: Address, contact information, and more important, information from a scorecard: Tee sets, pars, yardages, and handicaping information.

== Transformation to SVG ==

Finally, using the golfml2svg.xsl stylesheet, you can transform the GolfML document to one or more XML SVG files with the resulting images.

The [http://code.google.com/p/golfml/downloads/list Download area] of the GolfML project contains some sample graphics.

The [http://code.google.com/p/golfml/source/checkout Source Code area] contains XSL transformation sheets.