#summary Golf Markup Language Examples and Cases Study.
#sidebar TableOfContents

== Introduction ==

Please visit the source code repository for golfml document instances.
 
The primary goal of golfml is to provide a XML based data format. This data format is formalized in an XML Schema.

To illustrate the usefulness and the purpose of the golfml data format, we also provide a few sample stylesheets to transform golfml documents to other useful data format. Please recall that these style sheets are provided as illustrations and are not part of the GolfML standard.


== GolfML To HTML ==

[CaseStudy2 Several stylesheets] convert simple GolfML documents into various HTML files.

 * `custom-scorecard.xsl` - Prints a standard scorecard for a golf course, with or without score information for up to four players.
 * `score.xsl` - Prints a scorecard for a round of golf for up to four players.
 * `simple-score.xsl` - Prints a simpler scorecard for each golfer for a round of golf.
 * `static-course.xsl` - Prints a standard scorecard for a golf course.


== GolfML To [http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics Scalable Vector Graphics] ==

 * `kml2golfml.xsl` - Prototype stylesheet transforms Google Earth Keyhole Markup Language into Golf Markup Language. 
 * `golfml2svg.xsl` - Prototype stylesheet formats the geographic information of either a single hole or a whole golf course to a SVG drawing.

Geographic information was collected by drawing polygons in Google Earth. The KML file generated by Google Earth was incorporated in golfml. The case study "[CaseStudy1 From Google Earth to a Yardage Book]" details the operations.

== GolfML To [http://www.openstreetmap.org/ OpenStreetMap] ==

 * `golfml2osm.xsl` - Prototype stylesheet transforms Golf Markup Language into [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/OSM_XML OpenStreetMap XML]. 
 * `osm2golfml.xsl` - Prototype stylesheet to transform [http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Proposed_features/Golf_course OpenStreetMap XML that contains golf information] into a GolfML document.

[Golfml2OSM Some conventions] have been taken to go smoothly back and forth between the two formats.