#summary Golf Markup Language Reference: Common Attributes And Elements.

= Introduction =

The section lists generic elements and attributes that can be present at several places in the GolfML documents.

= Common Elements =

Common elements can be present in several other elements. 

== Notes ==

The `notes` elements receives all comments, rating, notes and additional information for its parent element.

While some child elements are structured, the GolfML document may contain any addition information inside the note element.

=== Child Elements ===

Notes element may contain the following child elements:

 # rating
 # comments

== Media ==

The `media` element refer to a usually graphical piece of information attached to its parent element.

=== Attributes ===

The `media` element has the following attributes:

 # type - Type of media attached to the parent element. The media types are defined and must be issued from the list of valid media type values. Please refer to the [[Domains Golf Markup Language Reference: Domains and Domain Values]].

=== Child Elements ===

Media element may contain the following child elements:

 # name - Name or Title of the media
 # location - Location of the media. GolfML does not give any meaning to the value of the `location` element. The value of the location element can be a file name, a xLink pointer, a URL...


= Common Attributes =

The following attributes are used in several elements. They refer to their parent element.

 # FromDate - Date of first use of the golf holes as described in the element.
 # ToDate - Date of last use of the golf holes as described in the element.

== Unique Identifiers ==

The attribute `id` is used to identify an element in the GolfML document.

=== Notes ===

We investigate the possibility to switch to [http://www.w3.org/TR/2001/REC-xmlschema-1-20010502/#cIdentity-constraint_Definitions ref/keyref] for identity constraints.