#summary Help for Golfml CourseWriter.
#sidebar TableOfContents
= !CourseWriter Help =
This Page: <wiki:toc max_depth="4" />
----
== What does Golfml !CourseWriter do? ==

The purpose of the application is to:

  * Write new golfml course definition files
  * Import and display course definition golfml files
  * Import, edit and save course definition golfml files
  * Produce the web files necessary to:
    # Display printable course data for any course in any club.
    # Display a printable personalised scorecard for any player on any course featuring accurate USGA/EGA playing handicap and Stableford allowances.

It does _not_:

  * Read or write golfml graphical information (SVG yardage books)
  * Read or write golfml player information
  * Read or write golfml match/score information
    * _Warning: If you import a golfml file with course, player and/or score information, and then overwrite it using !CourseWriter, only the course information will be preserved._
== Who would use Golfml !CourseWriter? ==

  * Golf associations
    * Using !CourseWriter, an association can make and easily maintain an accurate database of Clubs and courses in a readable and standardised format that can be downloaded or viewed by its members.
  * Golf course owners
    * Using !CourseWriter, a club can make and then publish accurate data about their courses in a standard format (golfml) for customers to download, view and exchange.
  * Golf societies
    * Using !CourseWriter and golfml, the society can produce scorecards for it's members with accurate playing handicaps and stableford allowances for any club and course the members play.
  * Golfers
    * Using !CourseWriter and golfml, a golfer can produce, exchange and download golf course data for both local and remote courses.  This means that printing a personal scorecard for any course is easy and accurate.
== What is a golfml file? ==

It is a plain-text (human-readable) XML file designed to store information about Golf Courses, Golf Players and Golf Matches.

== How can I make a golfml data file for any course? ==

When Golfml !CourseWriter starts up, the first screen gives simple instructions on how to make a new golfml file.

You will need:

  # A scorecard from the Golf Club with the *tees* and *distances*, *!StrokeIndexes* and *Pars* for each hole.  You can sometimes see these published on the web.
  # The *Course Rating* and *Slope Rating* for each tee of each course in the club (it should be on the scorecards; look for the terms 'VC' and 'VS')
  # Details about the Club's *location* and *facilities* offered by the club.
    * You can use [http://maps.google.com/ Google Maps] or [http://earth.google.com Google Earth] to find GPS latitude and longitude information.

== How can I edit a golfml file? ==

  # On the File menu, click 'Import golfml file...'.  After a short delay, the golfml file data will load.
    * You can then add, delete, change and edit anything you like, and when you are done, click the 'Save all data to golfml file' button.

_Note: If you save the file under the same name you loaded it, the new file will always overwrite the old one._

== Can I change a golfml file myself using a text editor? ==

Yes.  That is one of the strengths of XML as a data format, but it is safer to edit via Golfml !CourseWriter (Menu: File/Import golfml file...)

== How can I display a scorecard on a web page using Golfml !CourseWriter? ==

 * Make or import a course (e.g. 'mycourse.xml')
 * In the Mode menu, click 'Course + Generic Scorecard stylesheet'
 * Click the 'Save all data to Golfml File'  Use the suggested filename (e.g. 'scorecard_mycourse.xml') to save the golfml file to disk
 * On your website, add the saved golfml file and also the following 2 files (available in the source section):
    # coursescorecard.xsl
    # golfml.css
Now, your golfml file will display on your website as a scorecard. ([http://www.charcodelvalle.com/golfmlweb/files/scorecard_tenerife_abamagolf.xml Click Here] to see an example)

== How can I display a personalised scorecard on a web page using Golfml !CourseWriter? ==

  * Make or import a course (e.g. 'mycourse.xml')
  * In the Mode menu, click 'Course + Player Scorecard stylesheet'
  * Click the 'Save all data to Golfml File'
  * Input if prompted the player's name, gender, date of birth and handicap
  * When prompted enter the _exact_ golf course name and tee-colour
  * Use the suggested filename (e.g. 'playerscorecard_mycourse.xml') to save the golfml file to disk
  * On your website, add the saved golfml file and also the following 2 files (available in the source section):
  # playerscorecard.xsl
  # golfml.css
Now, your golfml file will display on your website as a personalised scorecard.  ([http://www.charcodelvalle.com/golfmlweb/files/playerscorecard_tenerife_abamagolf.xml Click Here] to see an example)


== I want to add a new feature or amenity (advanced feature) ==
If you click Help/About !CourseWriter, on the resulting dialog you will see something like the entry:
Config file: /etc/coursewriter.cfg
(The details depend on your operating system)

* Note: See [CourseWriterConfig this page] for a detailed explanation of the !CourseWriter configuation file*

If you open this config file in a plain text editor (not a word processor), you will see something like:
{{{
[config]
BrowserPath=/usr/local/bin/xdg-open
AppVersion=2.1.20120423

[ameneties]
; Format: amenity[0->15]=type,description
; available types are:
; practice,store,food,corporate,golfers,bathroom,water,other
; description can be anything you like
amenity0=practice,Practice putting green
amenity1=practice,Practice driving range
amenity2=practice,Practice chipping area
amenity3=practice,Golf lessons
amenity4=golfers,Club hire
amenity5=golfers,Buggy hire
amenity6=food,Buggy bar
amenity7=golfers,Club cleaning facilities
amenity8=bathroom,On-course bathroom facilities
amenity9=shop,Clubhouse shop
amenity10=food,Clubhouse bar
amenity11=food,Clubhouse cafe/restaurant
amenity12=other,Private parking
amenity13=corporate,Corporate/group facilities
amenity14=corporate,PGA facilities
amenity15=other,Private membership only
}}}
Changing one or more the entries in this file will allow you to change the amenity list that !CourseWriter uses.
Be sure to choose an appropriate type from the list and use a comma before the amenity description.
There is a maximum of 16 entries (0 -> 15)