#summary Definition of Terms Used in Golf Course Specifications

= Introduction =

The Golf Courses section of GolfML deals with the static definition of golf courses for scoring purposes.

Entities are organized in a hierarchy.


== Golf Courses ==

All golf courses are organized in *Country Clubs*. A Country Club is a place where we can find find one or more Golf Course(s). A Country Club has some basic identification attributes such as name, address, contact phone number, contact email address, and web site.

_Note: I could not come up with another name for a “collection of golf courses at the same location”. Golf Facility..._


A *Golf Course* contains identification attributes such as name, architect, year it was open, a set Holes and Tees.


A *Hole* is the description of a hole and is common to all Tees. A description of a hole can contain associated media (photographs, yardage pages...) and placemarks.

A *Placemark* is a position on a golf hole. The position is qualified by the type of object, and its exact location. Placemark types are limited to a list of valid values. (tee, trap-sand, trap-grass, water, lateral-water, fairway, green, tree, forest, relief, sprinkler head, 200, 150, 100 yards makers...)

The *Location* is geograhic position of a Placemark. Location and use any referencial system, local or global, and is speciaifed in the type attribute.

A *GPS* coordinate consisting of latitude, longitude, altitude, and precision if available is stored in a Location element. 

A Surface-mark is an ordered set of 3 or more Locations that define a closed polygon. The closed polygon can be a hole limits, limits of a hazard, or of a detailed green.

*Tees* are a set of 9 or 18 playable holes. Inside Tees, we can either define each individual tee or reference another set of Tees. This allows for 27 holes facilities to define holes and individual tees only once and to compose 18 hole playable rounds by combining sets of 9 tees.

Tees are qualified by a name (or colour), rating information for handicap purposes.

A *Tee* consist of scorecard data: Par, length, handicap number.


Both Golf Courses and Tees have an optional start and end date attribute to allow for modifications of the course or of tee locations over time.


= Notes =

XML Elements that need to be ordered (like hole numbers, rounds numbers...) must contain an explicit attribute to organize them (like number or hole-number or position...).


= Area that needs improvement =

attributes of entities such as:
# Country Club
# Golf Course
# Tees
# Tee

Reference Values should be completed and listed in schema or DTD.

= Problems =

Find a neutral way to specify course “rating” in different systems.