#summary Conventions Used in Mark-Up Definitions.

= Introduction =

A few notes on conventions used.

= Element and Attribute Names =

We use dash-separated-lower-case-names rather than firstLetterCapitalizedNames. Just a choice.

Attribute ID can be capitalized to stand out.

= Elements or Attributes =

This is an eternal debate. We will find a consistant approach to this, but there is no rule to impose the use of one over the other.

If an object contains more than one other objects, the choice for elements is obvious. Exemple:
{{{
<bag id="bag-123" name="sunday bag">
  <clubref>club-123</clubref>
  <clubref>club-234</clubref>
</bag>
}}}

But when an object is qualified by a value, it is less evident to decide whether the value is an element or an attribute.

{{{
<bag id="bag-123" name="sunday bag">
  ...
</bag>
}}}
and
and
{{{
<bag id="bag-123">
  <name>sunday bag</name>
  ...
</bag>
}}}
are both acceptable.

When the object (`name`) is a qualifier for its parent object, we will use attributes. When the object is a constituant, a sub-object of its parent, we will use elements. In the latter case, `name` is a qualifier for `bag`, we would use it as an attribute.

Finally, we prefer to use elements for data and attributes for meta-data.
For example, to express the length of a hole:
{{{
<length units="yards">
135
</length>
}}}
Units is clearly meta data on the actual hole length value.

= Notes on ID and IDREF =

Golf Markup Language makes extensive use of ID and IDREF to maintain cross references of data.

== ID ==

The ID of an element of type _x_ should be prefixed by the object _type_, like this `<`*`club`*` ID="`*`club-`*`1234ab" />`.

== IDREF Elements and Attributes ==

When an element or an attribute refers to a object of type _x_, its name should be _xref_:
{{{
<club ID="club-123abc" />
...
<stroke clubref="club-123abc" >
...
</stroke>
}}}
or
{{{
<clubref>club-123abc</clubref>
}}}