#summary Information about golfml Player Scorecard Updater.
#sidebar TableOfContents
== Golfml !PlayerScorecard Updater ==
This Page: <wiki:toc max_depth="4" />
----
=== Purpose ===
This application is a utility that works in collaboration with !CourseWriter's "Make Player Scorecard" mode.

Once a player scorecard golfml file has been made by !CourseWriter, it is for a particular player at a particular handicap on a named course and tee position.

Any of these parameters can change often (especially the handicap) so !PlayerScorecard Updater is a quick utility that enables you to change any of these parameters quickly and easily.

==== Why a separate application? ====
It is true that you could use !CourseWriter to do this, but Updater is designed for bulk operation.

=== Operation Scenarios ===
==== Scenario 1 ====

You wish to produce printable online scorecards for 50 golfers for a competition.
  # Use !CourseWriter to make or import the golfml course file.
  # In !CourseWriter "player scorecard" mode, save the golfml course using a meaningful filename e.g. _playerscorecard_coursename_playername.xml_
  # Using Updater, import the file, and update the player name and player handicap
  # In Updater export the golfml file using the player name in the filename
  # *Without closing Updater*, repeat steps (3) and (4) until you have the 50 golfml files

==== Scenario 2 ====
You have a personal player scorecard golfml file for your home course and wish to update the handicap.

  # Using Updater, import the file, and update the handicap only
  # Export (save) the updated file

That's it!