#summary Golf Markup Language Reference: Stroke.

= Description =

The Stroke element records information about a stroke played during a round of golf.

= Attributes =

The element has the following attribute:

 # number - Position of the stroke in the sequence.
 # time - Optional time of the stroke for rythm calculation purpose.

= Elements = 

== Descriptive Elements ==

The element has the following descriptive elements:

 # ClubRef - Reference to the Club of Golf used to play the stroke.
 # Origin - Position the stroke was played from.
 # Penalty - Penalty enforced before the stroke.
 # ToHole - Distance to hole.
 # AltToHole - Altitude difference to hole.
 # Result - Stroke result.

The Stroke result is a not structured. Any text, note, or comment can be added. The meaning of the content is left to the user. It can be used to qualify the quality of the shot, its precision, and any textual information.


== Structural Elements ==

None.


=== Element Details ===

==== Origin Element ====

The Origin element records information about the starting position of a stroke.

The element has the following descriptive elements:

 # Lie - Lie of ball before the stroke.
 # Position - Position of the ball in a coordonate system.


= Notes =

The Position element can use any coordinate system.

The most common coordonate system is the Global Positioning System (GPS). In this case, the Position element uses  a single [Gps] element to record the position of the ball.

Other system may use other coordinate system, absolute or relative to a golf course, or to a hole. In this case, the content of the Position element will vary according to the requirement of the position measurement and record.
 

= See Also =

Parent element: [Scorecard PlayedHole].