#summary Golf Markup Language Reference: Tees.

= Description =

The Tees elements contains individual [[Tee]] element for the description of each Tee.

= Attributes =

The element has the following attributes:

 # id - Unique identifier
 # name - Name for the set of Tees.
 # color - Color for the set of Tees.
 # gender - Gender of the set of Tees. Must be either men or ladies.
 # length-units - Units used in the specification of each Tee's individual length.
 # handicap-method - Handicap method used to qualify the Tee. The handicap method value is limited to a list of valid values. (See [[Domains Golf Markup Language Reference: Domains and Domain Values]].)
 # from-date - Date from which the set of Tees can be played.
 #  to-date - Date until which the set of Tees could be played.

= Elements = 

== Descriptive Elements ==

The element has the following descriptive elements:

 # [[Qualification]]

== Structural Elements ==

The Tees element can be constructed from 2 methods:

 # Specification of each individual Tee element.
 # Partial copy of another Tees element.

Tees often only differ in hole length. They sometimes also differ in individual hole handicap value and par.

The first method for Tees specification uses the following structural elements:

 #  [[Tee]]

This method requires the specification of each individual Tee for each hole of the golf course.


The second method for Tees specification uses the following structural elements:

 # [[TeesRef]]

This method allows to copy a partial information of a previously defined Tees element together with the specification of new elements from each invidual hole.


= Notes =


= See Also =