#summary Golf Markup Language Reference: Units.

= Introduction =

= Units =

The Golf Markup Language use the International Metric System of Units for all physical information and reference.

However, given the popularity of the game of Golf in the United States of America, and in order to avoid constant conversion between Imperial and Metric system, GolfML introduce the `units` attribute on some elements.

The elements that can be defined using the Imperial system of units are:

 # Golf Hole distances and measurements. Imperial units used: Yards.
 # Player statistics. Imperial units used: Yards for distance.
 # Weather temperatures and wind speed. Imperial units used: Farenheit (F) and mile per hours (mph).

To specify that these elements use Imperial units, the attibute `units` must be used. The value of the `units` attribute specify the Imperial unit used to specify a value.

The metric unit used for an element is specified in the definition of the element.

= Numeric Values =

Numeric values are expressed using a decimal period and no separators for thousands.

= Date and Time =

== Date ==

Dates have the format DD-MON-YYYY, where DD is a single or double digit day of the month, MON are the first three letter of the month, and YYYY is the 4-digit calendar year. Date are formatted using the English Language.
The Gregorian calendar is used.

{{{
  25-DEC-2008
}}}

== Time ==

Time is formated as HH:MM[:SS[.sss]] using the unambiguous 24 hour format. Seconds and fractions of a second are optional.

{{{
  17:28
}}}

Duration are expressed as D:H:M[:S[.s]].

= Notes =


= See Also =