#summary Golf Markup Language
#sidebar TableOfContents

== Why GolfML ==

The purpose of GolfML is to provide a XML-based file format for the exchange of golf-related data.

There are numerous golf scorecard programs and online web sites that allow golfers to browse course information, print scorecards, keep track of scores, and analyze statistics, or view a Google Earth fly-over of each hole.

Scorecard programs and websites can usually neither talk to each other nor share data. The main reason is the lack of a common language. GolfML is the missing link, the language necessary for each party to understand the other.

==== Golfing Data: Par, distances, rating, slope... ====

The benefits for golfers are numerous. Let us take the practical example of a golfer who simply records his or her rounds in a desktop application.

When he first starts the application, he must manually encode the details of the golf course he just played. He takes his scorecard and type in par, handicap index, distances for each hole.

Rather, we promote the ability to find that information on the internet, download it and load it into the application. No typing required. To achieve this, the information must be made available on a website, and must be presented in a form that can be understood by all programs. That form that all programs understand is GolfML.

Is that information available on a web site? Of course it is. There are literally dozen of websites that offer that simple Par/Handicap stroke index/Distance/Rating/Slope information in different forms. But none of this web site proposes this information in a form that can be understood by other applications. The purpose of GolfML is to be _that_ form of presentation of the data to ease the exchange of information, not only between the website and your application, but also between websites themselves.

But there is more.

==== Scores ====

After the golfer manually encoded the Par/Handicap stroke index/Distance information in his desktop application, he is now ready to encode his score: Strokes, Stableford points, putts, may be some statistics like fairway hits, greens in regulations or sand saves... All this information is carefully entered into his application. The application is now ready to present him with summaries, statistics, trends over the rounds he entered into it. If he now wants to share that information on a social golfer network, on a web site, or may be at the USGA to compute his official handicap, he will have to type in again his scoring information. Wouldn’t it be nice if he could simply transfer, or upload his score, from his desktop application to a website, and spare him the tedious typing a second, a third, and may be even more times?

This simply does not occur because each web site has a specific requirement regarding the form of the data. There are so many website, social  golfing networks, or applications available each one speaking its own language that they cannot agree on a unique language. Enters GolfML, a proposed common language for all golfing websites, social networks and applications.

GolfML is not owned by anybody. It is everybody’s common ground. If someone needs adjustment to the language, it can and will probably be made. There are little or no excuses to not use GolfML to exchange information. Those who refuse GolfML to exchange golf information lock themselves in their closed, limited world and refuse the opening. You own your data. You deserve a mean to extract and carry your data with you in a form that can be understood by other. GolfML is that form. GolfML has been designed to help you keep all your golfing information: Courses you played, scores, wagers!, statistics, even your equipment.

Of course, a website might refuse to give information and data it bought into a readable format like GolfML. This is normal. They bought data, let us say a _ "database of all golf courses of the world, with their par/distance/phone numbers” _ , and they do not want or are not allowed to disclose that information. They "own" the data and do not want to share it. The issue is not technical, it is copyrights.

But what about your information: Your score, or any other data you entered? Don't you "own" it? Aren't you entitled to take a copy with you to use elsewhere? If the information was entered by you, or a community of golfers, no social network can decently take ownership of the information and refuse to release it to its contributing members. GolfML is a clever way to make that information widely available.

But there is more.

==== GPS Too ====

Let us take another example. Nowadays, location aware applications running on mobile devices like to take advantage of the Global Positioning System.

Some private companies invest millions of US dollars to map golf courses with more or less details. Some map green contour and fairways, other just have a few points of references like the start (front edge) of the green. Some other companies simply buy those mapping data for their competing devices.

Next to those commercial companies, some social golfing networks have started encoding golf maps, with or without the ubiquitous Google Earth or dedicated tools. Like commercial applications, some are very basic and only offer position of tees and start-of-greens, but some other are fairly comprehensive and draw fairway contours and more. And Yes, GolfML Can. GolfML can store and distribute geo-coded, GPS information about a golf course in its data format.

==== . ====

As today, only one of these social networks gives its data back in a form usable by a mobile application. There is a handful applications that use this data. But literally, no other mobile application is ready to accept data from another website than the one of its manufacturer.
Here again, the ambition of GolfML is to close the gap between those who have the information and are ready to share it, and those who need the information to use it. They both need to talk the same language, GolfML.

Owner of sharable information need to present that information in a form that can be understood by all, and applications need to be able to decode that information and place it in their application. These is no big, unsolvable issue involved, just the willingness to open an application or a service to more golfers.