#summary Generating Google Code Wiki-Style Documentation from XML Schema Annotation/Documentation

= Introduction =

xml2wiki is a XSL style sheet designed to build [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax Google Code Wiki-style] documentation directly from XML Schema annotation and documentation elements.


= Details =

The excellent [http://xframe.sourceforge.net/ xframe] framework allows for automatic HTML documentation generation from XML Schema annotation and documentation elements.

A debug option of xframe allow for generation of the intermediate XML documentation format which contains not only pre-formatted elements (such as source code) but also all structural information such as parent and children elements, attributes, types, etc.

xml2wiki.xsl stylesheet available in the [http://code.google.com/p/golfml/source/browse/ source code repository] of golfml allows for generation of Google Code Wiki Style documentation from this XML documentation format.

The xml2wiki.xsl stylesheet is the same style sheet as the one provided in xframe (called xml2html.xsl) but has been modified to generate wiki-style text rather than HTML.

== File names ==

Google Code Wiki requires a flat directory structures. All files are in the same directory.

xframe generates a directory tree structure. There are directories for elements, complexTypes, simpleTypes, attributeGroups, etc.

To reconcile both structure, we created a directory structure by pre-pending a single letter code to each file in the sub-directory structure generated by xframe. Using he following convention:

|| *xframe Directory* || *First letter of file name* ||
|| simpleType || S ||
|| element || E ||
|| group || G ||
|| attributeGroup || A ||
|| complexType || C ||

Example:

In xframe, a file named

http___code.google.com_p_golfml/complexType/Player.xml

is renamed

CPlayer.wiki

to be included in Google Code Wiki.
A couple of XSL template take care of renaming element, types, and attributes accordingly.

= Notes =

The xml2wiki.xsl stylesheet has been customized to generate Wiki-style documentation for the golfml project.
It is not a full implementation of the original xml2html.xsl stylesheet. For instance, the raw source code element is not formatted to Wiki style. But the xml2wiki.xsl stylesheet can certainly be used to extend to further requirements.